
 This is a good articel. Click here for more information. Page semi-protrected
Friends
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the television sitcom. For the social concept, see friendship. For other uses, see Friends (disambiguation).
"Central Perk" redirects here. It is not to be confused with Central Park.
Friends
Friends logo.svg
Genre	Sitcom
Created by	David Crane
Marta Kauffman
Starring	Jennifer Aniston
Courteney Cox
Lisa Kudrow
Matt LeBlanc
Matthew Perry
David Schwimmer
Theme music composer	Michael Skloff
Allee Willis
Opening theme	"I'll Be There for You"
by The Rembrandts
Country of origin	United States
Original language(s)	English
No. of seasons	10
No. of episodes	236 (list of episodes)
Production
Executive producer(s)	David Crane
Marta Kauffman
Kevin S. Bright
Michael Borkow (season 4)
Michael Curtis (season 5)
Adam Chase (seasons 5–6)
Greg Malins (seasons 5–7)
Wil Calhoun (season 7)
Scott Silveri (season 8–10)
Shana Goldberg-Meehan (season 8–10)
Andrew Reich (seasons 8–10)
Ted Cohen (seasons 8–10)
Camera setup	Multi-camera
Running time	20–22 minutes (per episode)
22–65 minutes (extended international TV & DVD episodes)
Production company(s)	Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions
Warner Bros. Television
Distributor	Warner Bros. Television Distribution
Release
Original network	NBC
Picture format	480i (4:3 SDTV) (original broadcast)
1080p (16:9 HDTV) (2012 remaster)
Audio format	Dolby Surround 2.0 (original broadcast)
Dolby Digital 5.1 (2012 remaster)
Original release	September 22, 1994 – May 6, 2004
Chronology
Followed by	Joey (2004–06)
External links
Website	warnervideo.com/friends15/
Friends (stylized as F•R•I•E•N•D•S) is an American television sitcom, created by David Crane and Marta Kauffman, which aired on NBC from September 22, 1994, to May 6, 2004, lasting ten seasons. With an ensemble cast starring Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer, the show revolves around six 20-30 something friends living in Manhattan. The series was produced by Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions, in association with Warner Bros. Television. The original executive producers were Kevin S. Bright, Marta Kauffman, and David Crane.

Kauffman and Crane began developing Friends under the title Insomnia Cafe between November and December 1993. They presented the idea to Bright, and together they pitched a seven-page treatment of the show to NBC. After several script rewrites and changes, including a title change to Six of One[1] and Friends Like Us, the series was finally named Friends.[2]

Filming took place at Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank, California. All ten seasons of Friends ranked within the top ten of the final television season ratings; ultimately reaching the No. 1 spot with its eighth season. The series finale on May 6, 2004, was watched by around 52.5 million American viewers, making it the fifth most watched series finale in television history,[3][4][5] and the most watched television episode of the 2000s decade.[6][7]

Friends received acclaim throughout its run, becoming one of the most popular television shows of all time.[8] The series was nominated for 62 Primetime Emmy Awards, winning the Outstanding Comedy Series award in 2002 for its eighth season. The show ranked no. 21 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time[9] and no. 7 on Empire magazine's The 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.[10][11] In 1997, the episode "The One with the Prom Video" was ranked no. 100 on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All-Time.[12] In 2013, Friends ranked no. 24 on the Writers Guild of America's 101 Best Written TV Series of All Time[13] and no. 28 on TV Guide's 60 Best TV Series of All Time.[14]

Contents  [hide] 
1	Premise
2	Characters
3	Cast
4	Episodes
4.1	Season 1
4.2	Season 2
4.3	Season 3
4.4	Season 4
4.5	Season 5
4.6	Season 6
4.7	Season 7
4.8	Season 8
4.9	Season 9
4.10	Season 10
5	Production
5.1	Conception
5.2	Casting
5.3	Writing
5.4	Filming
6	Series finale
7	Reception
7.1	Critical reception
7.2	Awards
7.3	Ratings
8	Cultural impact
9	Distribution
9.1	Broadcast
9.2	International
9.3	DVD
10	Spin-offs
10.1	Joey
10.2	Film rumors
11	References
12	Further reading
13	External links
Premise
Rachel Green flees her wedding day and seeks out childhood friend Monica Geller, a New York City chef. They become roommates, and Rachel joins Monica's social circle of single people in their mid-20s: struggling actor Joey Tribbiani, business professional Chandler Bing, masseuse and musician Phoebe Buffay, and newly divorced paleontologist Ross Geller, Monica's older brother. To support herself, Rachel becomes a waitress at Central Perk, a Manhattan coffeehouse where the group often hangs out; when not there, the six are usually at Monica and Rachel's nearby West Village apartment, or Joey and Chandler's across the hall.

Episodes typically depict the friends' comedic and romantic adventures and career issues, such as Joey auditioning for roles or Rachel seeking jobs in the fashion industry. The six characters each have many dates and serious relationships, such as Monica with Richard Burke and Ross with Emily Waltham. Ross and Rachel's intermittent relationship is the most often-recurring storyline; during the ten seasons of the show they repeatedly date and break up, even while Ross briefly marries Emily, he and Rachel have a child, Chandler and Monica date and marry each other, and Phoebe marries Mike Hannigan. Other frequently recurring characters include Ross and Monica's parents in Long Island, Ross's ex-wife and their son, Central Perk barista Gunther, Chandler's ex-girlfriend Janice, and Phoebe's twin sister Ursula.

Characters
See also: List of Friends characters
The series featured six main characters throughout its run:

Jennifer Aniston portrays Rachel Green, a fashion enthusiast and Monica Geller's best friend from childhood. Rachel first moves in with Monica in season one after nearly marrying Barry Farber, whom she realizes she does not love. Rachel and Ross Geller are later involved in an on-again-off-again relationship throughout the series. Rachel dates other men during the series, such as an Italian neighbor, Paolo, in season one; Joshua Bergin, a client from Bloomingdale's, in season four; Tag Jones, her assistant, in season seven; and Joey Tribbiani in season ten. Rachel’s first job is as a waitress at the coffeehouse Central Perk, but she later becomes an assistant buyer at Bloomingdale's in season three, and a buyer at Ralph Lauren in season five. Rachel and Ross have a daughter named Emma in "The One Where Rachel Has a Baby, Part Two" at the end of season eight. In the final episode of the series, Ross and Rachel finally confess their love for each other, and Rachel gives up a job in Paris to be with him.
Courteney Cox portrays Monica Geller, the mother hen of the group and a chef,[15] known for her perfectionist, bossy, competitive, and obsessive-compulsive nature.[16][17] Monica is often jokingly teased by the others for having been extremely overweight as a child, especially by her brother Ross. Monica works as a chef in various restaurants throughout the show. Monica’s first serious relationship is with long-time family friend Richard Burke, who is twenty-one years her senior. The couple maintains a strong relationship for some time, until Richard expresses that he does not want to have children, much to Monica’s dismay. Monica and Chandler Bing later start a relationship after spending a night with each other in London in the season four finale, leading to their marriage in season seven and adoption of twins at the end of the series.
Lisa Kudrow portrays Phoebe Buffay, an eccentric masseuse and self-taught musician. As a child, Phoebe lived in uptown New York with her mother, until she committed suicide and Phoebe took to the streets. Phoebe is ditsy but street smart. She writes and sings her own quirky songs, accompanying herself on the guitar. She has an "evil" identical twin named Ursula, who shares Phoebe’s quirkiness, but, unlike Phoebe, seems to be selfish and uncaring. Phoebe is childlike and innocent in disposition. She tends to use her past misfortunes such as her mother’s suicide as sympathy ploys – or rather, to mock others' self-indulgent self-pity. Phoebe has three serious relationships over the show's run: David, a scientist, in season one, whom she breaks up with when he moves to Minsk on a research grant; Gary, a police officer whose badge she finds, in season five; and an on-and-off relationship with Mike Hannigan in seasons nine and ten. In season nine, Phoebe and Mike break up due to his desire not to marry. David returns from Minsk, leading to the two getting back together, but she eventually rejects him for Mike when both of them propose to her. Phoebe and Mike marry in season ten.[18][19]
Matt LeBlanc portrays Joey Tribbiani, a struggling actor and food lover who becomes famous for his role on soap opera Days of Our Lives as Dr. Drake Ramoray. Joey is a simple-minded womanizer with many short-term girlfriends. Despite his womanizing, Joey is innocent, caring, and well-intentioned.[20] Joey often uses the catchphrase pick-up line "How you doin'?" in his attempts to win over most of the women he meets. Joey rooms with his best friend Chandler for years, and later with Rachel. He falls in love with Rachel in season eight,[21] but Rachel politely tells Joey that she does not share his feelings. They eventually date briefly in season ten, but after realizing it will not work due to their friendship and, more importantly, Rachel's complicated relationship with Ross, they return to being friends.
Matthew Perry portrays Chandler Bing, an executive in statistical analysis and data reconfiguration for a large, multinational corporation. Chandler hates this job, although it pays well. He attempts to quit during season one, but is lured back with a new office and a pay raise. He eventually quits this job in season nine due to a transfer to Tulsa. He becomes a junior copywriter at an advertising agency later that season. Chandler has a peculiar family history being the son of an erotic novelist mother and a gay, cross-dressing Las Vegas star father. Chandler is known for his sarcastic sense of humor and bad luck in relationships.[22] Chandler marries Monica in season seven, and they adopt twins at the end of the series. Before his relationship with Monica, Chandler dated Janice Hosenstein in season one and subsequently broke up with her many times. Matthew Perry has expressed his similarities to the character, such as his need to break an awkward silence with a joke and difficulties with women when first joining the show.[23]
David Schwimmer portrays Ross Geller, Monica Geller's older brother, a paleontologist working at the Museum of Natural History, and later a tenured professor of paleontology at New York University. Ross is a sweet-natured man of good humor, although he is often clumsy and socially awkward. Ross is involved in an on-again-off-again relationship with Rachel throughout the series. He has three failed marriages during the series: Carol Willick, a lesbian who is also the mother of his son, Ben; Emily Waltham, who divorces Ross after he accidentally says Rachel's name instead of hers during their wedding vows; and Rachel, as the two drunkenly marry in Las Vegas. His failed love life is potentially due to his paranoia and jealousy in relationships, and his divorces become a running joke within the series. Following a one-night stand, he and Rachel have a daughter, Emma, by the end of season eight. They finally confess that they are still in love with each other in the series finale.
Cast
Primary cast of Friends

Aniston in 2008 

Cox in 2009 

Kudrow in 2009 

LeBlanc in 2013 

Perry in 2007 

Schwimmer in 2011 
In their original contracts for the first season, cast members were paid $22,500 per episode.[24] The cast members received different salaries in the second season, beginning from the $20,000 range to $40,000 per episode.[24][25] Before their salary negotiations for the third season, the cast decided to enter collective negotiations, despite Warner Bros.' preference for individual deals.[26] The actors were given the salary of the least-paid cast member, meaning Aniston and Schwimmer had their salaries reduced. The stars were paid $75,000 per episode in season three, $85,000 in season four, $100,000 in season five, $125,000 in season six, $750,000 in seasons seven and eight, and $1 million in seasons nine and ten, making Aniston, Cox, and Kudrow the highest paid TV actresses of all-time.[27][28][29] The cast also received syndication royalties beginning in 2000 after renegotiations. At the time, that financial benefit of a piece of the show's lucrative back end profits had only been given out to stars who had ownership rights in a show, like Jerry Seinfeld and Bill Cosby.[30]

Series creator David Crane wanted all six actors to be equally prominent,[31] and the series was lauded as being "the first true 'ensemble' show."[32] The cast members made efforts to keep the ensemble format and not allow one member to dominate;[32] they entered themselves in the same acting categories for awards,[33] opted for collective salary negotiations,[32] and asked to appear together on magazine cover photos in the first season.[34] The cast members also became best friends off-screen,[35] so much so that recurring guest star Tom Selleck reported that he sometimes felt left out.[36]

The cast remained good friends after the series run, most notably Cox and Aniston, with Aniston being godmother to Cox and David Arquette's daughter, Coco.[37] In the official farewell commemorative book Friends 'Til the End, each separately acknowledged in interviews that the cast had become their family.[38]

Episodes
Main article: List of Friends episodes
Season	Episodes	Originally aired
First aired	Last aired
1	24	September 22, 1994	May 18, 1995
2	24	September 21, 1995	May 16, 1996
3	25	September 19, 1996	May 15, 1997
4	24	September 25, 1997	May 7, 1998
5	24	September 24, 1998	May 20, 1999
6	25	September 23, 1999	May 18, 2000
7	24	October 12, 2000	May 17, 2001
8	24	September 27, 2001	May 16, 2002
9	24	September 26, 2002	May 15, 2003
10	18	September 25, 2003	May 6, 2004
Season 1
Main article: Friends (season 1)
The first season introduces the six main characters: Rachel, Monica, Phoebe, Joey, Chandler, and Ross. Rachel arrives at Central Perk after running away from her wedding to her fiancé Barry and moves into an apartment with her friend Monica from high school. Ross, who has had a crush on Rachel since the two of them were in high school, constantly attempts to tell her how he feels about her. However, many obstacles stand in his way, such as the fact that he is expecting a baby with his lesbian ex-wife, Carol. Joey is shown to be a bachelor and struggling actor, while Phoebe works as a masseuse and portrays a sort of "crazy" attribute to her personality based on her troubles as a child after her mother committed suicide. However the rest of the group loves her regardless. Chandler breaks up with girlfriend Janice (Maggie Wheeler), who frequently returns in later seasons. At the end of the season, Chandler accidentally reveals that Ross loves Rachel, who realizes that she feels the same way. The season ends with Rachel waiting at the airport for Ross’ arrival from a trip.

Season 2
Main article: Friends (season 2)
The second season begins with Rachel waiting at the gate for Ross to declare her love for him. However, she discovers that he is dating Julie (Lauren Tom), someone he knew from graduate school. Rachel's attempts to tell Ross she likes him mirror his failed attempts in the first season, although the characters eventually begin a relationship. Joey gets cast in a part in a fictional version of the soap opera Days of Our Lives, but his character is killed off after conflicts with the show's writers, claiming that he writes many of his own lines. Chandler gets back with Janice, his ex-girlfriend from season one. Monica begins dating Richard (Tom Selleck), a recently divorced family friend and 21 years her senior. In the season finale, they end their relationship when they realize that unlike Monica, Richard does not want children.

Season 3
Main article: Friends (season 3)
Season three takes on a significantly greater serialized format. Rachel begins working at Bloomingdale's, an upscale department store chain, and Ross becomes jealous of her colleague, Mark. Rachel decides to take a break; and Ross, hurt and drunk, sleeps with someone else, causing Rachel to break up with him. In the meantime, Chandler has a hard time dealing with their breakup because it reminds him of his parents' divorce. After believing she has no family except her twin sister Ursula (Lisa Kudrow), Phoebe becomes acquainted with her half-brother (Giovanni Ribisi) and birth mother (Teri Garr). Joey develops a relationship with his acting partner Kate (Dina Meyer), and Monica begins a relationship with millionaire Pete Becker (Jon Favreau) which ends because of disagreements between the two.

Season 4
Main article: Friends (season 4)
In the fourth-season premiere, Ross and Rachel briefly reconcile after Ross pretends to read a long letter that Rachel wrote for him, but continues to insist that the two were on a break so they break up again. Joey dates Kathy (Paget Brewster), a girl that Chandler has a crush on. Kathy and Chandler later kiss, which causes drama between Chandler and Joey. Joey forgives Chandler only after he spends a day in a box as punishment. Phoebe becomes a surrogate mother for her brother and his wife Alice (Debra Jo Rupp). Monica and Rachel are forced to switch apartments with Joey and Chandler after losing a bet during a quiz game, but manage to switch back by bribing them with Knicks season tickets and a one-minute kiss (off-screen) between the girls. Ross begins dating an English woman named Emily (Helen Baxendale), and the season finale features their wedding in London. Chandler and Monica sleep together, and Rachel decides to attend Ross and Emily's wedding. While saying his vows, Ross uses the wrong name at the altar (Rachel's), to the shock of his bride and the guests.

Season 5
Main article: Friends (season 5)
Season five features Monica and Chandler trying to keep their new relationship a secret from their friends. Phoebe gives birth to triplets in the show's 100th episode. She gives birth to a boy, Frank Jr. Jr., and two girls: Leslie and Chandler. (They had originally thought that there were two boys and one girl, but decided to keep the name Chandler, despite the baby turning out a girl.) Emily states that the only condition in which she would remain married to Ross is if he stops all communication with Rachel. Ross agrees, but during a last dinner with all six main characters together, Emily phones Ross and, upon discovering Rachel is there, realizes she does not trust him, which ends the marriage. Phoebe begins a relationship with a police officer, Gary (Michael Rapaport), after finding his badge and using it as her own. Monica and Chandler go public with their relationship, to the surprise and happiness of their friends. They decide to get married on a trip to Las Vegas, but change their plans after witnessing Ross and Rachel drunkenly stumble out of the wedding chapel.

Season 6
Main article: Friends (season 6)
In the sixth-season premiere, Ross and Rachel's marriage is established to be a drunken mistake. Ross and Rachel try to get an annulment because he doesn't want to have three divorces. However, he realized he couldn't do so and tried to keep their wedding a secret from Rachel. Nonetheless, they divorce several episodes later. Monica and Chandler move in together, causing Rachel to move in with Phoebe. Joey lands a role on a cable television series called Mac and C.H.E.E.S.E., where he stars alongside a robot. Ross gets a job lecturing at New York University and starts dating one of his students, Elizabeth (Alexandra Holden). The relationship ends because of their maturity differences. Phoebe and Rachel's apartment catches fire, and Rachel moves in with Joey, while Phoebe moves in with Chandler and Monica. Chandler proposes to Monica, who says yes even though her ex-boyfriend Richard confesses his love for her.

Season 7
Main article: Friends (season 7)
The seventh season mainly follows the various antics by Monica and Chandler, who begin to plan their wedding and run into financial problems which are quickly fixed by Chandler’s secret funds. Joey's television series Mac and C.H.E.E.S.E is cancelled, but he is offered his job back on Days of Our Lives. Phoebe's apartment is fixed, but is rebuilt with only one large bedroom instead of the original two, so Rachel decides to stay with Joey. The season ends during Monica and Chandler’s wedding where Phoebe and Rachel find a positive pregnancy test in the bathroom.

Season 8
Main article: Friends (season 8)
In the eighth season, it is revealed that the positive pregnancy test found at Monica's wedding belongs to Rachel. Phoebe at first tricks Rachel and tells her that the pregnancy test is negative, in order to achieve Rachel's real emotions on the realization of being pregnant. Rachel projects feelings of sadness when she thinks she's not pregnant, so Phoebe tells her the truth. The three of them rejoice in the bathroom. The season revolves around Rachel's pregnancy; Ross is revealed to be the father after an investigation involving a red sweater. Rachel and Ross decide to have the baby but do not resume their romantic relationship. Joey develops romantic feelings for Rachel, but she does not reciprocate them. Rachel gives birth to baby Emma in the season finale. At the hospital, Ross's mother offers him an engagement ring because she wants him to marry Rachel. Ross does not intend to ask Rachel to marry him, but he takes the ring anyway and puts it in his jacket pocket. Meanwhile, in the post-delivery room, Joey looks for some tissue for an upset Rachel, picks up Ross's jacket, and the ring falls to the floor. He kneels to pick it up and turns to Rachel, still on his knees and still holding the ring. Rachel accepts what she thinks is his proposal of marriage.

Season 9
Main article: Friends (season 9)
Season nine begins with Ross and Rachel living together as roommates with their daughter Emma. Monica and Chandler try to conceive a baby of their own but find out that they are unable to, due to health restrictions. Phoebe begins dating Mike Hannigan (Paul Rudd), and chooses to be with him over her ex-boyfriend David (Hank Azaria). Rachel and Emma move in with Joey in the middle of the season, and Rachel develops romantic feelings for him, while the rest of the "friends" try hard to get Ross and Rachel back together. The group travels to Barbados in the finale to hear Ross give a keynote speech at a paleontology conference. Joey and his girlfriend Charlie (Aisha Tyler) break up, and she begins a relationship with Ross. Joey and Rachel's feelings for each other return, and the finale ends with them kissing.

Season 10
Main article: Friends (season 10)
The tenth season closes several long-running storylines. Charlie breaks up with Ross to get back together with her ex-boyfriend. Joey and Rachel try to contend with Ross' feelings about them being together and decide it would be best to remain friends. Phoebe and Mike get married mid-season outside the Central Perk coffee house. Monica and Chandler apply to adopt a child and are chosen by Erica (Anna Faris). In the series finale, Erica gives birth to twins, to the surprise of Monica and Chandler — a boy, Jack (after Monica's father), and a girl, Erica (named after the birth mother). Monica and Chandler prepare to move to the suburbs, and Joey becomes upset with the changes in his life. Rachel gets fired from her job and accepts a new offer in Paris, but Ross, realizing he loves her, chases after her. Rachel realizes she loves him, too, and cancels her flight to Paris, agreeing to stay with him. The series ends with all the friends plus Monica and Chandler's new babies leaving the apartment, heading to Central Perk for a final cup of coffee. The finale dialogue used in this series is by Chandler, making a joke for the last time. The camera's last view is of all of the character's keys to the apartment on the counter table, finishing with a shot of the apartment door.

Production
Conception
"It's about sex, love, relationships, careers, a time in your life when everything's possible. And it's about friendship because when you're single and in the city, your friends are your family."
—The original treatment used by Crane, Kauffman and Bright to pitch the series to NBC.[39]
David Crane and Marta Kauffman began developing three new television pilots that would premiere in 1994 after their sitcom Family Album was cancelled by CBS in 1993.[40] Kauffman and Crane decided to pitch the series about "six people in their 20s making their way in Manhattan" to NBC, since they thought it would fit best there.[41] Crane and Kauffman presented the idea to their production partner Kevin Bright, who had served as executive producer on their HBO series Dream On.[42] The idea for the series was conceived when Crane and Kauffman began thinking about the time when they had finished college and started living by themselves in New York; Kauffman believed they were looking at a time when the future was "more of a question mark."[39] They found the concept to be interesting, as they believed "everybody knows that feeling",[39] and because it was also how they felt about their own lives at the time.[39] The team titled the series Insomnia Cafe, and pitched the idea as a seven-page treatment to NBC in December 1993.[39][41]

At the same time, Warren Littlefield, the then-president of NBC Entertainment, was seeking a comedy involving young people living together and sharing expenses. Littlefield wanted the group to share memorable periods of their lives with friends, who had become "new, surrogate family members."[18] However, Littlefield found difficulty in bringing the concept to life, and found the scripts developed by NBC to be terrible. When Kauffman, Crane and Bright pitched Insomnia Cafe, Littlefield was impressed that they knew who their characters were.[18] NBC bought the idea as a put pilot, meaning they risked financial penalties if the pilot was not filmed.[43] Kauffman and Crane began writing a pilot script for a show now titled Friends Like Us,[39] which took three days to write.[44] Littlefield wanted the series to represent Generation X and explore a new kind of tribal bonding, but the trio did not share his vision. Crane argued that it was not a series for one generation, and wanted to produce a series that everyone would enjoy watching.[18] NBC liked the pilot script and ordered the series under another title, Six of One, mainly due to the similar title it shared with the ABC sitcom These Friends of Mine.[45]

Casting
See also: The Pilot (Friends)

The producers wanted Courteney Cox (pictured) to portray Rachel, and Jennifer Aniston as Monica; however, Cox and Aniston disagreed, so Cox was cast as Monica and Aniston as Rachel.
Once it became apparent that the series was a favored project at NBC, Littlefield reported that he was getting calls from every agent in town, wanting their client to be a part of the series.[18] Auditions for the lead roles took place in New York and Los Angeles.[46] The casting director shortlisted 1,000 actors who had applied for each role down to 75. Those who received a callback read again in front of Crane, Kauffman and Bright. At the end of March, the number of potential actors had been reduced to three or four for each part, and were asked to read for Les Moonves, then-president of Warner Bros. Television.[47]

Having worked with David Schwimmer in the past,[46] the series creators wrote the character of Ross with him in mind, and he was the first actor cast.[48] Cox wanted to play the role of Monica, but the producers had her in mind to play Rachel because of her "cheery, upbeat energy", which was not how they envisioned Monica; after Cox's audition, though, Kauffman agreed with Cox, and she got the role.[39][49] When Matt LeBlanc auditioned for Joey, he put a "different spin" on the character.[39] The writers did not originally intend for Joey to be dim, but found it to be a major source of comedy. LeBlanc also gave the character heart, which the writers did not realize Joey had. Although Crane and Kauffman did not want LeBlanc for the role at the time, they were told by the network to cast him.[39] Jennifer Aniston, Matthew Perry and Lisa Kudrow were cast based on their auditions.[46]

More changes occurred to the series' storylines during the casting process. The writers found that they had to adjust the characters they had written to suit the actors, and the discovery process of the characters occurred throughout the first season. Kauffman acknowledged that Joey's character became "this whole new being", and that "it wasn't until we did the first Thanksgiving episode that we realized how much fun Monica's neuroses are."[50]

Writing
In the weeks after NBC's pick up of Friends, Crane, Kauffman and Bright reviewed sent-in scripts that writers had originally prepared for other series, mainly unproduced Seinfeld episodes.[51] Kauffman and Crane hired a team of seven young writers because "When you're 40, you can't do it anymore. The networks and studios are looking for young people coming in out of college."[52] The creators felt that using six equal characters, rather than emphasizing one or two, would allow for "myriad storylines and give the show legs."[31] The majority of the storyline ideas came from the writers, although the actors added ideas.[46] The writers originally planned a big love story between Joey and Monica, as they intended them to be the most sexual of the characters in the series pitch. The idea of a romantic interest between Ross and Rachel emerged during the period when Kauffman and Crane wrote the pilot script.[39]

During production of the pilot, NBC requested that the script be changed to feature one dominant storyline and several minor ones, but the writers refused, wanting to keep three storylines of equal weight.[45] NBC thought the cast was too young and pushed for an older character who could give the young adults advice. Crane and Kauffman were forced to comply and wrote a draft of an early episode that featured "Pat the Cop." Crane found the storyline to be terrible, and Kauffman joked, "You know the kids book, Pat the Bunny? We had Pat the Cop." NBC eventually relented and dropped the idea.[39]

Each summer (June, July, and August in the US), the producers would outline the storylines for the subsequent season.[53] Before an episode went into production, Kauffman and Crane would revise the script written by another writer, mainly if something concerning either the series or a character felt foreign.[51] Unlike other storylines, the idea for a relationship between Joey and Rachel was decided on halfway through the eighth season. The creators did not want Ross and Rachel to get back together so soon, and while looking for a romantic impediment, a writer suggested Joey's romantic interest in Rachel. The storyline was incorporated into the season; however, when the actors feared that the storyline would make their characters unlikable, the storyline was wrapped up, until it again resurfaced in the season's finale. For the ninth season, the writers were unsure about the amount of storyline to give to Rachel's baby, as they wanted the show neither to revolve around a baby nor pretend there to be none.[53] Crane said that it took them a while to accept the idea of a tenth season, which they decided to do because they had enough stories left to tell to justify the season. Kauffman and Crane would not have signed on for an eleventh season, even if all the cast members had wanted to continue.[50]

The episode title format—"The One..."[54]—was created when the producers realized that the episode titles would not be featured in the opening credits, and therefore would be unknown to most of the audience. Episode titles officially begin with "The One..." except the title of the pilot episode and the series finale "The Last One."

Filming

The Greenwich Village building, 90 Bedford Street, used as the friends' apartment block in establishing shots
The first season was shot on Stage 5 at Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank, California.[55] NBC executives had worried that the coffee house setting was too hip and asked for the series to be set in a diner, but eventually consented to the coffee house concept.[39] The opening title sequence was filmed in a fountain at the Warner Bros. Ranch at 4:00 am, while it was particularly cold for a Burbank morning.[56] At the beginning of the second season, production moved to the larger Stage 24, which was renamed "The Friends Stage" after the series finale.[57] Filming for the series began during the summer (June, July, and August in the US) of 1994 in front of a live audience, who were given a summary of the series to familiarize themselves with the six main characters;[39] a hired comedian entertained the studio audience between takes.[34] Each 22-minute episode took six hours to film—twice the length of most sitcom tapings—mainly due to the several retakes and rewrites of the script.[34]

Although the producers always wanted to find the right stories to take advantage of being on location, Friends was never shot in New York. Bright felt that filming outside the studio made episodes less funny, even when shooting on the lot outside, and that the live audience was an integral part of the series.[46] When the series was criticized for incorrectly depicting New York, with the financially struggling group of friends being able to afford huge apartments, Bright noted that the set had to be big enough for the cameras, lighting, and "for the audience to be able to see what's going on";[46] the apartments also needed to provide a place for the actors to execute the funny scripts.[46] The fourth-season finale was shot on location in London because the producers were aware of the series' popularity in the UK.[46] The scenes were shot in a studio with three audiences each made up of 500 people. These were the show's largest audiences throughout its run. The fifth-season finale, set in Las Vegas, was filmed at Warner Bros. Studios, although Bright met people who thought it was filmed on location.[58]

Series finale
Main article: The Last One (Friends)

The cast became very emotional while filming the final episode. Jennifer Aniston explained, "We're like very delicate china right now, and we're speeding toward a brick wall."[59]
The series' creators completed the first draft of the hour-long finale in January 2004, four months before its original airing. Crane, Kauffman and Bright watched the finales of other sitcoms to prepare the episode's outline, paying attention to what worked and what did not. They liked the ones that stayed true to the series, citing the finale of The Mary Tyler Moore Show as the gold standard. Crane, Kauffman, and Bright had difficulty writing the finale, and spent several days thinking about the final scene without being able to write a word. They did not want to do "something high concept, or take the show out of the show."[60] The most critical parts of the finale were shot without an audience, and with a minimum number of crew members. The main cast enjoyed the finale and were confident that the fans would react similarly:[60]

It's exactly what I had hoped. We all end up with a sense of a new beginning and the audience has a sense that it's a new chapter in the lives of all these characters.

— David Schwimmer on the series finale.[60]
NBC heavily promoted the series finale, which was preceded by weeks of media hype.[61] Local NBC affiliates organized viewing parties around the U.S., including an event at Universal CityWalk featuring a special broadcast of the finale on an outdoor Astrovision screen.[62] The finale was the subject of two episodes of Dateline NBC, a weekly television newsmagazine, one of which ran for two hours. A one-hour retrospective of clips from previous episodes was shown before to the airing of the episode. Following the finale, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno was filmed on the set of the Friends' Central Perk coffee house, which featured the series' cast as guests.[63][64] The advertising rates for the finale averaged $2 million for 30 seconds of commercial time, breaking the record held by the Seinfeld finale at $1.7 million.[62]

In the U.S., 52.5 million viewers watched the finale on May 6, 2004, making it the most watched entertainment telecast since the Seinfeld finale in 1998.[63] Although it was not the series' most watched episode,[65] the finale was the fourth most watched series finale in television history, only behind the finales of M*A*S*H, Cheers and Seinfeld, which were respectively watched by 105, 80.4 and 76.2 million viewers. The retrospective episode was watched by fewer than 36 million viewers, and the finale was the second most watched television broadcast of the year, only behind the Super Bowl.[63] Following the finales of Friends and Frasier, media critics speculated about the fate of the sitcom genre. Expressed opinions varied between a signaling of the end of the sitcom genre, a small decline in the large history of the genre,[62] and a general reduction of scripted television in favor of reality shows.[61]

Reception
Critical reception
Early reviews of the series were mixed; and it holds a Metacritic score of 59 out of 100, based on 20 sampled reviews, indicating "mixed to average reviews."[66] Tom Feran of The Plain Dealer wrote that the series traded "vaguely and less successfully on the hanging-out style of Seinfeld",[67] while Ann Hodges of the Houston Chronicle called it "the new Seinfeld wannabe, but it will never be as funny as Seinfeld."[68] In the Los Angeles Daily News, Ray Richmond named the series as "one of the brighter comedies of the new season",[69] and The Los Angeles Times called it "flat-out the best comedy series of the new season."[70]

Chicago Sun-Times' Ginny Holbert found Joey and Rachel's characteristics to be underdeveloped,[71] while Richmond commended the cast as a "likeable, youth ensemble" with "good chemistry."[69] Robert Bianco of USA Today was complimentary of Schwimmer, calling him "terrific." He also praised the female leads, but was concerned that Perry's role as Chandler was "undefined" and that LeBlanc was "relying too much on the same brain-dead stud routine that was already tired the last two times he tried it."[72] The authors of Friends Like Us: The Unofficial Guide to Friends thought that the cast was "trying just a little too hard", in particular Perry and Schwimmer.[73]

As the series progressed, reviews became more positive, and Friends became one of the most popular sitcoms of its time. It is now often ranked among the all-time best TV shows.[8][9][10] Critics commended the series as having consistently sharp writing and chemistry between the main actors.[74] Noel Holston of Newsday, who had dismissed the pilot as a "so-so Seinfeld wannabe" in 1994, repudiated his earlier review after rewatching the episode, and felt like writing an apology to the writers.[50] Heather Havrilesky of Salon.com thought that the series "hit its stride" in the second season. Havrilesky found the character-specific jokes and situations "could reliably make you laugh out loud a few times each episode", and the quality of writing allowed the stories to be "original and innovative."[75] Bill Carter of The New York Times called the eighth season a "truly stunning comeback." Carter found that by "generating new hot storylines and high-decibel laughs", the series made its way "back into the hearts of its fans."[76] However, Liane Bonin of Entertainment Weekly felt that the direction of the ninth season was a "disappointing buzzkill", criticizing it for the non-stop celebrity guest spots and going into jump the shark territory. Although disappointed with the season, Bonin noted that "the writing [was] still sharp."[77] Havrilesky thought that the tenth season was "alarmingly awful, far worse than you would ever imagine a show that was once so good could be."[75] Friends was featured on Time's list of "The 100 Best TV Shows of All-Time", saying, "the well-hidden secret of this show was that it called itself Friends, and was really about family."[78]

"It may have been impossible for any one episode to live up to the hype and expectations built up around the Friends finale, but this hour probably came as close as fans could have reasonably hoped. Ultimately, the two-hour package did exactly what it was supposed to do. It wrapped up the story while reminding us why we liked the show and will miss it."
— Robert Bianco of USA Today on the series finale.[79]
Reviews of the series finale were mixed. USA Today's Robert Bianco described the finale as entertaining and satisfying, and praised it for deftly mixing emotion and humor while highlighting each of the stars.[79] Sarah Rodman of the Boston Herald praised Aniston and Schwimmer for their acting, but felt that their characters' reunion was "a bit too neat, even if it was what most of the show's legions of fans wanted."[80] Roger Catlin of the Hartford Courant felt that newcomers to the series would be "surprised at how laughless the affair could be, and how nearly every strained gag depends on the sheer stupidity of its characters."[81] Ken Parish Perkins, writing for Fort Worth Star-Telegram, pointed out that the finale was "more touching than comical, more satisfying in terms of closure than knee-slappingly funny."[82]

Awards
Main article: List of awards and nominations received by Friends
To maintain the series' ensemble format, the main cast members decided to enter themselves in the same acting categories for awards.[33] Beginning with the series' eighth season, the actors decided to submit themselves in the lead actor balloting, rather than in the supporting actor fields.[83] The series was nominated for 62 Primetime Emmy Awards,[84] winning six. Aniston and Kudrow are the only main cast members to win an Emmy, while Cox is the only actor not to be nominated. The series won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series in 2002, receiving nominations in 1995, 1996, 1999, 2000, and 2003.[85] The series also won an American Comedy Award,[86] one GLAAD Media Award,[87] one Golden Globe Award,[88] three Logie Awards,[89][90] six People's Choice Awards,[91][92] one Satellite Award,[93] and one Screen Actors Guild Award.[94]

Ratings
The table below shows the ratings of Friends in the United States, where it consistently ranked within the top ten of the final television season ratings.[95] "Rank" refers to how well Friends rated compared to other television series that aired during primetime hours of the corresponding television season. It is shown in relation to the total number of series airing on the then-six major English-language networks in a given season. "Viewers" refers to the average number of viewers for all original episodes, broadcast during the television season in the series' regular timeslot. The "season premiere" is the date that the first episode of the season aired, and the "season finale" is the date that the final episode of the season aired. So far, Friends has been the last sitcom to reach the No. 1 spot on television, as its successors were CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, American Idol, NBC Sunday Night Football and NCIS.

Ratings table
Season	Timeslot	Season premiere	Season finale	TV season	Rank	Viewers
(in millions)	Most watched episode
Title	Viewers
(in millions)
1	Thursday 8:30 pm
(September 22, 1994 – February 23, 1995)
Thursday 9:30 pm
(February 23 – May 18, 1995)	September 22, 1994	May 18, 1995	1994–95	8	24.3[95]	"The One Where Rachel Finds Out"	31.3[96]
2	Thursday 8:00 pm	September 21, 1995	May 16, 1996	1995–96	3	29.4[95]	"The One After the Superbowl"	52.9[96]
3	September 19, 1996	May 15, 1997	1996–97	4	24.9[95]	"The One Where Chandler Can't Remember Which Sister"	29.8[97]
4	September 25, 1997	May 7, 1998	1997–98	4	24.0[95]	"The One with Ross's Wedding"	31.6[96]
5	September 24, 1998	May 20, 1999	1998–99	2	23.5[95]	"The One After Ross Says Rachel"	30.9[96]
6	September 23, 1999	May 18, 2000	1999–2000	5	20.7[95]	"The One with the Proposal"	30.7[96]
7	October 12, 2000	May 17, 2001	2000–01	5	20.2[95]	"The One with Monica and Chandler's Wedding"	30.1[96]
8	September 27, 2001	May 16, 2002	2001–02	1	24.5[95]	"The One Where Rachel Has a Baby"	34.9[96]
9	September 26, 2002	May 15, 2003	2002–03	2	21.8[95]	"The One Where No One Proposes"	34.0[96]
10	September 25, 2003	May 6, 2004	2003–04	4	22.8[95]	"The Last One"	52.5[3]
Cultural impact

Set of Central Perk at Warner Bros. Studios
Although the producers thought of Friends as "only a TV show", numerous psychologists investigated the cultural impact of Friends during the series' run. Aniston's hairstyle was nicknamed "The Rachel", and copied around the world.[18] Joey's catchphrase, "How you doin'?", became a popular part of Western English slang, often used as a pick-up line or when greeting friends.[98] The series also influenced the English language, according to a study by the University of Toronto that found that the characters used the emphasized word "so" to modify adjectives more often than any other intensifier. Although the preference had already made its way into the American vernacular, usage on the series may have accelerated the change.[32] Perry's habit of ending a sentence unfinished for sarcasm also influenced viewers' speech.[99] Following the September 11 attacks, ratings increased 17% over the previous season.[76]

Friends is parodied in the twelfth season Murder, She Wrote episode "Murder Among Friends." In the episode, amateur sleuth Jessica Fletcher (Angela Lansbury) investigates the murder of a writer for Buds, a fictional television series about the daily lives of a group of city friends. The episode was devised after CBS moved Murder, She Wrote from its regular Sunday night timeslot to a Thursday night timeslot directly opposite Friends on NBC; Angela Lansbury was quoted by Bruce Lansbury, her brother and Murder, She Wrote's supervising producer, as having "a bit of an attitude" about the move to Thursday, but he saw the plot as "a friendly setup, no mean-spiritedness."[100] Jerry Ludwig, the writer of the episode, researched the "flavor" of Buds by watching episodes of Friends.[100]

The Central Perk coffee house, one of the principal settings of the series, has inspired various imitations worldwide. In 2006, Iranian businessman Mojtaba Asadian started a Central Perk franchise, registering the name in 32 countries. The decor of the coffee houses is inspired by Friends, featuring replica couches, counters, neon signage and bricks. The coffee houses also contain paintings of the various characters from the series, and televisions playing Friends episodes. James Michael Tyler, who plays the Central Perk manager in the series, Gunther, attended the grand opening of the Dubai cafe, where he worked as a waiter.[101] Central Perk was rebuilt as part of a museum exhibit at Warner Bros. Studios, and was shown on The Ellen DeGeneres Show in October 2008. Jennifer Aniston revisited the set for the first time since the series finale in 2004.[102] From September 24 to October 7, 2009, a Central Perk replica was based at Broadwick Street, Soho, London. The coffee house sold real coffee to customers and featured a display of Friends memorabilia and props, such as the Geller Cup from the season three episode "The One with the Football."[103] In Beijing, business owner Du Xin opened a coffee shop named Central Perk in March 2010.[104] In India, there are five Friends themed cafes, located in Chandigarh (named Central Perk), Kolkata (named F.R.I.E.N.D.S. Cafe) which features many icons from the original T.V. series for example, Chandler and Joey's ugly dog statue, the orange sofa, the purple door of Monica and Rachel's apartment and Phoebe's pink bicycle. The other three cafes are located in Delhi, Gurugram and Pune.[105] There are two Friends themed cafes in Pakistan as well—one in Lahore known as "Friends Cafe" and the other in Peshawar called "Central Perk". Both of those cafes have an iconic couch,a guitar and foosball table, quotes from the show on the walls and even episode reruns on a projector. They're also planning to have their own Gunther at the bar.[106]

Friends has also developed an alternative family lifestyle by representing young people that live unconventional domestic lives. It presents the idea that "all you need is good friends" and can construct families through choice. The audience is able to identify with the program through the troubles seen on weekly episodes. It portrays a new way of living life and developing relationships which are not normally seen in conventional society.[107] According to a pop-culture expert at the University at Buffalo, Friends is "one of those rare shows that marked a change in American culture." The images of youth and the roles they portray are better defined and represent a lifestyle that centres around creating and sustaining relationships between friends running their own lives and seeking help from each other.[108]

The Guardian's TV and radio blog stated that Friends has impacted the creation of other television shows such as How I Met Your Mother. The similarities between the two consist of both sitcoms taking place in Manhattan, a group of white adults who are funny and have similar character traits.[109]

Readers of TV Guide voted the cast of Friends their Best Comedy cast of all time, ranking at 29% of the votes, beating Seinfeld, which registered 18%.[110] A poll undertaken by 60 Minutes and Vanity Fair named Friends the third greatest sitcom of all time.[111] In 2014, the series was ranked by Mundo Estranho the Best TV Series of All Time.[112]

Distribution
Broadcast
After the produced pilot lived up to NBC's hopes, the series premiered with the name Friends on September 22, 1994, in the coveted Thursday 8:30 p.m. timeslot. The pilot aired between Mad About You and Seinfeld,[18] and was watched by almost 22 million American viewers.[39] The series was a huge success throughout its run, and was a staple of NBC's Thursday night line-up, dubbed by the network as Must See TV.[113] When Crane told reporters in 2001 that the ninth season was a possibility, critics believed that he was posturing, and that at least two of the cast members would not sign on for another season.[76] When it was confirmed that Friends would return for a ninth season, the news was mainly about the amount of money—$7 million per episode—that it took to bring the series back for another season.[76]

After year-long expectations that the ninth season would be the series' last, NBC signed a deal in late December 2002 to bring the series back for a final tenth season. The series' creative team did not want to extend negotiations into the next year, and wanted to start writing the rest of the ninth-season episodes and a potential series finale.[114] NBC agreed to pay $10 million to Warner Bros. for the production of each tenth-season episode, the highest price in television history for a 30-minute series.[74] Although NBC was unable to bring in enough advertising revenue from commercials to cover the costs, the series was integral to the Thursday night schedule, which brought high ratings and profits to the other television series.[114] The cast demanded that the tenth season be reduced from the usual 24 episodes to 18 episodes to allow them to work on outside projects.[77]

In fall 2001,[clarification needed] Warner Bros. Domestic Cable made a deal with sister network TBS (both are owned by Time Warner) to air the series in rerun syndication. Warner Bros. Domestic Cable announced that it had sold additional cable rights to Friends to Nick at Nite which began airing in the fall of 2011[clarification needed] (unlike the TBS and broadcast syndication airings, Nick at Nite broadcasts of the series, which began airing as part of a seven-night launch marathon on September 5, 2011, replace the end credit tag scenes with marginalized credits featuring promotions for the series and other Nick at Nite programs). Warner Bros. was expected to make $200 million in license fees and advertising from the deal. Nick at Nite paid $500,000 per episode to air the episodes after 6 p.m. ET for six years through fall 2017.[clarification needed] TBS also renewed its contract for the same six-year period as Nick at Nite but paid $275,000 per episode because airings were restricted to before 6 p.m. ET except for the first year. In syndication until 2005, Friends had earned $4 million per episode in cash license fees for a total of $944 million.[115]

Beginning on March 5, 2012, high definition versions of all 236 Friends episodes were made available to local broadcast stations, starting with the pilot episode. For the remastered episodes, Warner Bros. restored previously cropped images on the left and right sides of the screen, using the original 35 mm film source, to use the entire 16:9 widescreen frame.[116] These masters had been airing in New Zealand on TV2 since January 2011.[117] Netflix added all ten seasons of Friends in high definition to their streaming service in the United States on January 1, 2015.[118] The Netflix airings are in the versions as aired on NBC rather than the longer international versions, as discussed below.

International
Friends has aired on different channels in the UK in their original, unedited international versions prior to their being re-edited for US broadcast and syndication. These versions, with additional footage not seen domestically, have aired on such stations as Channel 4, Sky1, E4, and Comedy Central UK.[119][120][121][122][123] On September 4, 2011, Friends officially ended on E4 after the channel re-ran the series since 2004. Comedy Central took over the rights to air the program from October 2011. In the Republic of Ireland each season of the show made its European debut on RTÉ2. After 2004 RTÉ2 began to repeat the series from the start before moving over to TV3 and its digital channel 3e in 2010.[124][125] As of February 2015, repeats of the show have returned to RTÉ2 while also broadcasting on Comedy Central Ireland.[126][127]

Friends has aired in Australia on the Seven Network (season 1 only), Nine Network (season 2–10), Network Ten (2007–09, repeats), on GEM (a sub-channel of the Nine Network), and on pay TV channel TV Hits formerly aired on Arena, 111 Hits.[128][129] The show is broadcast on TV2 in New Zealand.[130]

In Canada, the series was broadcast on Global. In later years, it was syndicated on several of its cable sibling networks, including Slice, DTour, and TVTropolis, its previous incarnation. In India the show is broadcast by Comedy Central India on various times.[131][132]

DVD
All ten seasons have been released on DVD individually and as a box set. Each Region 1 season release contains special features and are presented in their aforementioned original international broadcast versions, although Region 2 releases are as originally aired domestically. For the first season, each episode is updated with color correction and sound enhancement.[46] A wide range of Friends merchandise has been produced by various companies. In September 1995, WEA Records released the first album of music from Friends, the Friends Original TV Soundtrack, containing music featured in previous and future episodes. The soundtrack debuted on the Billboard 200 at number 46,[133] and sold 500,000 copies in November 1995.[134] In 1999, a second soundtrack album entitled Friends Again was released.[135] Other merchandise include a Friends version of the DVD game "Scene It?", and a quiz video game for PlayStation 2 and PC entitled Friends: The One with All the Trivia.[136][137] On September 28, 2009, a box set was released in the UK celebrating the series' 15th anniversary. The box set contained extended episodes, an episode guide, and original special features.[138]

Warner Home Video released a complete series collection on Blu-ray on November 13, 2012.[139] The collection does not feature the extra deleted scenes and jokes that were included on prior DVD releases, and are therefore presented in their NBC broadcast versions.

DVD name	Episodes	DVD release dates	Blu-ray release dates
Region 1	Region 2	Region 4	Region A	Region B UK	Region B Australia
The Complete First Season	24	April 30, 2002[140]	May 29, 2000[141]	October 4, 2006[142]	April 30, 2013		
The Complete Second Season	24	September 3, 2002[143]	May 29, 2000[141]	October 4, 2006[144]	April 30, 2013		
The Complete Third Season	25	April 1, 2003[145]	May 29, 2000[141]	October 4, 2006[146]			
The Complete Fourth Season	24	July 15, 2003[147]	May 29, 2000[141]	October 4, 2006[148]			
The Complete Fifth Season	24	November 4, 2003[149]	May 29, 2000[141]	October 4, 2006[150]			
The Complete Sixth Season	25	January 27, 2004[151]	July 17, 2000[152]	October 4, 2006[153]			
The Complete Seventh Season	24	April 6, 2004[154]	October 25, 2004[155]	October 4, 2006[156]			
The Complete Eighth Season	24	November 9, 2004[157]	October 25, 2004[158]	October 4, 2006[159]			
The Complete Ninth Season	24	March 8, 2005[160]	October 25, 2004[161]	October 4, 2006[162]			
The Complete Tenth Season	18	November 15, 2005[163]	October 25, 2004[164]	October 4, 2006[165]			
The Complete Series	236	November 15, 2005
November 14, 2006 (re-issue)
April 16, 2013 (re-issue 2013)	October 2, 2006
November 12, 2007 (re-issue)
September 28, 2009 (15th Anniversary Edition)		November 13, 2012	November 12, 2012	November 21, 2012 (JB Hi-Fi exclusive)
August 21, 2013
Spin-offs

LeBlanc hoped that by having his own show, Joey, "probably the least evolved character" on Friends, would become more developed.[166]
Joey
Main article: Joey (TV series)
After the series finale in 2004, LeBlanc signed on for the spin-off series, Joey, following Joey's move to Los Angeles to pursue his acting career. Kauffman and Crane were not interested in the spin-off, although Bright agreed to executive produce the series with Scott Silveri and Shana Goldberg-Meehan.[167] NBC heavily promoted Joey and gave it Friends' Thursday 8:00 pm timeslot.[168][169] The pilot was watched by 18.60 million American viewers,[170] but ratings continually decreased throughout the series' two seasons, averaging 10.20 million viewers in the first season and 7.10 million in the second.[58] The final broadcast episode on March 7, 2006 was watched by 7.09 million viewers;[171] NBC cancelled the series on May 15, 2006 after two seasons.[172] Bright blamed the collaboration between NBC executives, the studio and other producers for quickly ruining the series:[58]

On Friends, Joey was a womanizer, but we enjoyed his exploits. He was a solid friend, a guy you knew you could count on. Joey was deconstructed to be a guy who couldn't get a job, couldn't ask a girl out. He became a pathetic, mopey character. I felt he was moving in the wrong direction, but I was not heard.

— Kevin S. Bright on the reason for Joey's cancellation.[58]
Film rumors
Following the series finale, rumors began to emerge of a Friends film, although all were proven untrue.[173] Rumors of a film reemerged after the release of the Sex and the City film in 2008, which proved to be a success at the box office.[174] The Daily Telegraph reported in July 2008 that the main cast members had agreed to star in the project, and that filming was going to start within the next 18 months.[173] When asked about the film, Kudrow said that she was unaware of the talks, but expressed interest in the idea.[173] The director of publicity for Warner Bros., Jayne Trotman, said there was "no truth in the story",[175] and Perry's spokeswoman added that "nothing is happening in this regard, so the rumor is false."[176] Kudrow and Cox told the Associated Press in January 2010 that they had never been approached by Crane and Kauffman to make a film version of the series.[177]

Co-creator Marta Kauffman denied new rumors of a reunion in 2013. She said there would never be a Friends movie as the characters had all grown up: "Friends was about that time in your life when your friends are your family and once you have a family, there's no need anymore."[178] When LeBlanc visited a British polo match where royalty were present, he reported that "all they (Prince William and Harry) wanted to know was 'When is the Friends reunion?' That's all they wanted to know about." (He continued, "I told them to [censored] off.")[179]

In December 2013, following rumors suggesting that Aniston and Cox were discussing plans for a 2014 reunion, a poster titled 'The One After The 10 Year Break' went viral on the internet, claiming to be an advertisement for a reunion show.[180] The poster was met with excitement at first, and then anger after a tweet by Lisa Kudrow implied that the rumor was untrue. It was later confirmed on January 16, 2014, that the poster was made by a fan, who later apologized for misleading fans of the show.[181]

There was eventually what could be called a reunion in 2016, although it was focused on the career of occasional Friends director James Burrows, and Perry was not present as he was filming a stage play in London; he did however appear in a pre-recorded video, expressing disappointment that he could not be there.[182] The special only allocated a small amount of time to Friends-related business.[183][184]

References
Jump up ^ "'Friends' Was Originally Called 'Six of One'". Abcnews.go.com. April 5, 2012. Archived from the original on August 8, 2016. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
Jump up ^ Matt Lauer (May 5, 2004). "'Friends' Creators Share Show's Beginnings". NBSnews.com. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved May 5, 2004.
^ Jump up to: a b Zach Seemayer (March 31, 2014). "The 10 Most-Watched TV Series Finales Ever!". Archived from the original on September 3, 2015. Retrieved May 23, 2015.
Jump up ^ Stacy Conradt (February 28, 2015). "The 10 Most-Watched Series Finales Ever". Archived from the original on May 11, 2015. Retrieved May 24, 2015.
Jump up ^ Natalie Kalin (April 29, 2015). "Top 10 Most Watched TV Finales Ever". HuffingtonPost.com. Archived from the original on May 25, 2015. Retrieved May 24, 2015.
Jump up ^ "'Friends' Finale Is Decade's Most-Watched TV Show". Chicago Tribune. December 4, 2009. Archived from the original on August 12, 2012. Retrieved August 18, 2010.
Jump up ^ "The Most Watched TV Episode of the Decade Was...The Series Finale of 'Friends'". Daily News. New York. Archived from the original on December 7, 2009. Retrieved December 22, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b "The 100 Best Tv Shows Of All-Time". Time. September 6, 2007. Archived from the original on February 26, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b "TV Guide Names Top 50 Shows". CBS News. April 26, 2002. Archived from the original on September 4, 2012.
^ Jump up to: a b "Empire Magazine's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time list". Listal.com. December 23, 2008. Archived from the original on July 13, 2011. Retrieved April 2, 2011.
Jump up ^ "The 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time". empireonline.com. December 23, 2008. Archived from the original on November 5, 2011. Retrieved April 2, 2011.
Jump up ^ "Special Collector's Issue: 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time". TV Guide (June 28 – July 4). 1997.
Jump up ^ "101 Best Written TV Series List". Archived from the original on January 10, 2014.
Jump up ^ Fretts, Bruce; Roush, Matt. "The Greatest Shows on Earth". TV Guide Magazine. 61 (3194-3195): 16–19.
Jump up ^ Lomartire, Paul (September 4, 1994). "Fall TV '94". The Palm Beach Post. Retrieved February 14, 2009. (Registration required (help)).
Jump up ^ Bianco, Robert (March 3, 2004). "Friends played great game of poker". USA Today. Retrieved February 20, 2009.
Jump up ^ Booth, Jenny (May 21, 2006). "Sarey Carey: Does pride in housework make me bad as well as mad?". The Sunday Times. London. Archived from the original on June 29, 2011. Retrieved February 20, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b c d e f g Jicha, Tom (May 2, 2004). "They leave as they began: With a buzz". The Baltimore Sun. p. 1. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. Retrieved December 23, 2008.
Jump up ^ Andreeva, Nellie (September 20, 2004). "Kudrow has Comeback; Cox, HBO talk". The Hollywood Reporter. AllBusiness.com. Retrieved February 20, 2009.[dead link]
Jump up ^ "Matt LeBlanc – Friends Interview". NBC. Archived from the original on May 11, 2016.
Jump up ^ McLellan, Dennis (February 12, 2008). "Married .. With Children Co-Creator Dies". The Baltimore Sun. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. Retrieved December 23, 2008.
Jump up ^ "Friends Star Finally has Chance to Enjoy Success". Los Angeles Times. March 26, 1995. Retrieved February 20, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Matthew Perry – Friends Interview". NBC. Archived from the original on December 21, 2011. Retrieved March 29, 2012.
^ Jump up to: a b Lowry, Brian (August 12, 1996). "Friends cast returning amid contract dispute". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved March 8, 2009.
Jump up ^ Carter, Bill (July 16, 1996). "Friends Cast Bands Together To Demand a Salary Increase". The New York Times. Retrieved March 8, 2009.
Jump up ^ Rice, Lynette (April 21, 2000). "Friendly Fire". Entertainment Weekly. p. 1. Archived from the original on July 19, 2009. Retrieved March 8, 2009.
Jump up ^ Guinness World Records 2005: Special 50th Anniversary Edition. Guinness. p. 288. ISBN 1-892051-22-2.
Jump up ^ Saah, Nadia (January 21, 2004). "Friends til the end". USA Today. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
Jump up ^ Rice, Lynette (April 21, 2000). "Friendly Fire". Entertainment Weekly. p. 2. Archived from the original on July 20, 2009. Retrieved March 8, 2009.
Jump up ^ Carter, Bill (February 12, 2002). "'Friends' Deal Will Pay Each Of Its 6 Stars $22 Million". New York Times. Archived from the original on March 8, 2013. Retrieved March 28, 2012.
^ Jump up to: a b Jicha, Tom (May 2, 2004). "They leave as they began: With a buzz". The Baltimore Sun. p. 2. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. Retrieved December 23, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b c d McCarroll, Christina (May 6, 2004). "A family sitcom for Gen X - Friends cast a new TV mold". The Christian Science Monitor. Archived from the original on January 31, 2009. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b Bianco, Robert (January 1, 2005). "The Emmy Awards: Robert Bianco". USA Today. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b c Kiesewetter, John (January 27, 2002). "Friends grows in stature, ratings". The National Enquirer. Retrieved January 5, 2009.
Jump up ^ Zaslow, Jeffrey (October 8, 2000). "Balancing friends and family". USA Weekend. Archived from the original on May 26, 2012. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
Jump up ^ Power, Ed (May 6, 2004). "Why we will miss our absent Friends". Irish Independent. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
Jump up ^ "People: DeGeneres tries to calm the howling pack". The Denver Post. October 18, 2007. Archived from the original on July 19, 2009. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
Jump up ^ Wild, David (2004). Friends 'Til the End: The Official Celebration of All Ten Years. Time Warner. ISBN 1-932273-19-0.
^ Jump up to: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n Lauer, Matt (May 5, 2004). "Friends creators share show's beginnings". MSNBC. Archived from the original on December 28, 2013. Retrieved May 4, 2005.
Jump up ^ Wild, p. 206
^ Jump up to: a b Kolbert, Elizabeth (March 8, 1994). "Birth of a TV Show: A Drama All Its Own" Archived January 22, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.. The New York Times. Retrieved on January 19, 2008.
Jump up ^ "Behind the Scenes". TV2. Archived from the original on February 3, 2009. Retrieved January 10, 2009.
Jump up ^ Stallings, Penny (2000). The Ultimate Friends Companion. London: Channel 4 Books. pp. 102–103. ISBN 0-7522-7231-4.
Jump up ^ Wild, p. 215
^ Jump up to: a b Kolbert, Elizabeth (May 9, 1994). "The Conception and Delivery of a Sitcom: Everyone's a Critic". New York Times. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved December 30, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b c d e f g h i "Friends: Kevin Bright". USA Today. April 23, 2004. Archived from the original on July 15, 2013. Retrieved December 28, 2008.
Jump up ^ Kolbert, Elizabeth (April 6, 1994). "Finding the Absolutely Perfect Actor: The High-Stress Business of Casting Archived October 8, 2016, at the Wayback Machine.", The New York Times. Retrieved on January 19, 2008.
Jump up ^ Couric, Katie (May 5, 2004). "Can David Schwimmer leave Ross Geller behind?". MSNBC. Archived from the original on November 3, 2012. Retrieved December 23, 2008.
Jump up ^ Friends Til the end: The Official Celebration of all Ten years. Time Home Entertainment. 2004.
^ Jump up to: a b c Holston, Noel. "Friends that were like family". Newsday. Archived from the original on January 24, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b Kolbert, Elizabeth (May 23, 1994). "A Sitcom is Born: Only Time Will Tell the Road to Prime Time". New York Times. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ Shayne, Bob (June 10, 2001). "No Experience Wanted". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 16, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b Bauder, David (May 15, 2002). "Baby episode could make Friends TV's top show". Seattle Times. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Have yourself a mocha latte and reminisce a bit". Ocala.com. May 5, 2004. Archived from the original on March 24, 2012. Retrieved September 18, 2009.
Jump up ^ Endrst, James (February 23, 1995). "Friends wins friends with caffeine-fueled energy". Austin American-Statesman. Retrieved January 3, 2009. (Registration required (help)).
Jump up ^ Pollak, Michael (November 27, 2005). "F. Y. I.". New York Times.
Jump up ^ "52 millon friends see off Friends". China Daily. May 8, 2004. Archived from the original on January 25, 2009. Retrieved December 31, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b c d Ryan, Suzanne C. (December 7, 2006). "Friendly art of funny". The Age. Melbourne, Australia. Archived from the original on August 25, 2009. Retrieved December 30, 2008.
Jump up ^ Gilbert, Matthew (January 15, 2004). "Friends end painful, cast says". Boston Globe. Archived from the original on January 21, 2009. Retrieved January 5, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b c Hartlaub, Peter (January 15, 2004). "Friends challenge - finding right words to say goodbye". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on January 23, 2009. Retrieved December 28, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b Shales, Tom (May 7, 2004). "A Big Hug Goodbye to Friends and Maybe to the Sitcom". Washington Post. Retrieved December 28, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b c "Friends heads for much-hyped farewell". The Indian Express. May 5, 2004. Archived from the original on January 29, 2009. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b c "Estimated 51.1M Tune in for Friends Finale". Fox News Channel. May 7, 2004. Archived from the original on December 17, 2008. Retrieved December 28, 2008.
Jump up ^ Oldenburg, Ann (May 5, 2004). "And now, the one where Friends says goodbye". USA Today. Retrieved December 28, 2008.
Jump up ^ "Friends timeline". The Hollywood Reporter. May 6, 2004. Archived from the original on January 14, 2009. Retrieved February 19, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends Season 1". CBS Interactive Inc. Archived from the original on May 16, 2014. Retrieved March 29, 2014.
Jump up ^ Feran, Tom (September 22, 1994). "New Series Softens Dabney Coleman—A Little", The Plain Dealer, Newhouse Newspapers. Retrieved on January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Hodges, Ann (September 22, 1994). "NBC sitcoms make Thursday less funny Archived February 26, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.", Houston Chronicle, Hearst Newspapers. Retrieved on January 4, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b Richmond, Ray (September 22, 1994). "Season Premiere of Friends Leaves Room to Grow", (Registration required). Los Angeles Daily News, Los Angeles Newspaper Group. Retrieved on January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Rosenberg, Howard (September 22, 1994). "NBC's Strongest Evening of the Week Has Its Weak Spot Archived April 2, 2015, at the Wayback Machine.", The Los Angeles Times, Tribune Company. Retrieved on January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Holbert, Ginny (September 22, 1994). "X Marks Spot For Friends On Thursday." (Registration required). Chicago Sun-Times. Retrieved on January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Bianco, Robert (September 22, 1994). "Six Friends Sittin' Around, Talking", Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
Jump up ^ Sangster, p. 14
^ Jump up to: a b "Friends climax watched by 51m". BBC News. May 7, 2004. Archived from the original on February 5, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b Havrilesky, Heather (May 7, 2004). "Never forget your Friends". Salon.com. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b c d Carter, Bill (February 18, 2002). "Plot Twists Paid Off For Friends". The New York Times. Archived from the original on November 18, 2007. Retrieved November 13, 2007.
^ Jump up to: a b Bonin, Liane (January 9, 2003). "Is Friends overstaying its welcome?". CNN. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2008.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The 100 Best TV Shows of All". Time. August 13, 2007. Archived from the original on April 30, 2009. Retrieved April 27, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b Bianco, Robert (May 7, 2004). "Rachel stays, so Friends are able to leave together". USA Today. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ Rodman, Sarah (May 7, 2004). "Six pals depart on a classy note". Boston Herald. p. 3.
Jump up ^ Catlin, Roger (May 7, 2004). "The Long Farewell is Over; Lots of Fans, Little Fanfare for Mich-Anticipated Finale of Friends". Hartford Courant. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ Perkins, Ken Parish (May 7, 2004). "Farewell to Friends: The finale to the 10-year series wraps up all the loose ends". Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ Lowry, Brian (July 19, 2002). "Its Coffin Overflows". Orlando Sentinel. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved December 19, 2008.
Jump up ^ Friends Archived October 10, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. emmys.com. Retrieved June 1, 2014.
Jump up ^ "Advanced Primetime Awards Search". Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. Archived from the original on January 21, 2009. Retrieved January 5, 2009. Type "Friends" in the "Program" field, select "1993" and "2008" in "Year range" field, and select "NBC" in "Network" field.
Jump up ^ Keck, William (June 2, 2005). "Kudrow back in the fold". USA Today. Retrieved January 5, 2009.
Jump up ^ "15 years of recognition". TelevisionWeek. April 25, 2005. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved January 5, 2009.
Jump up ^ "HPFA - Jennifer Aniston". Golden Globe Award. Archived from the original on January 21, 2009. Retrieved January 5, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Fed: Logie Award winners". Australian Associated Press. May 12, 2003. Retrieved January 5, 2009. (Registration required (help)).
Jump up ^ "Fed: Full list of Logies winners". Australian Associated Press. April 19, 2004. Retrieved January 5, 2009. (Registration required (help)).
Jump up ^ "Entertainment Awards Database". Los Angeles Times. pp. 2–3. Retrieved January 5, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Tim Allen Wins Twice at Awards". Rocky Mountain News. March 6, 1995. Retrieved January 5, 2009. (Registration required (help)).
Jump up ^ "2001 5th Annual Satellite Awards". Satellite Awards. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. Retrieved January 5, 2009. Select the "Television" field.
Jump up ^ "The 2nd Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards". Screen Actors Guild Awards. February 24, 1996. Archived from the original on May 25, 2013. Retrieved July 10, 2013.
^ Jump up to: a b c d e f g h i j k Ratings for Friends by television seasons:
Season 1: "TV Season Rankings 1994–95". Archived from the original on September 3, 2015.
Season 2: "How Twitter is Changing Television". Archived from the original on September 3, 2015.
Season 3: "A Milestone Year". Archived from the original on June 30, 2015.
Season 4: "What Ranked and What Tanked". Archived from the original on February 16, 2015.
Season 5: "TV Winners & Losers". Archived from the original on October 29, 2009.
Season 6: "Nielsen Ratings for 1999–2000". Archived from the original on February 3, 2014.
Season 7: "Friends Or Foes?". Archived from the original on September 3, 2015.
Season 8: "How Did Your Favorite Show Rate?". Archived from the original on October 15, 2015.
Season 9: "A Look at the Good Ol' Days of Broadcast Primetime TV: You Know, 2003". Archived from the original on September 3, 2015.
Season 10: "Nielsen TV Index Ranking 2003–04". Archived from the original on August 18, 2015.
^ Jump up to: a b c d e f g h "You Won’t Believe What America’s Favorite "Friends" Episodes Are". Archived from the original on June 20, 2015. Retrieved August 12, 2015.
Jump up ^ "Nielsen Ratings (December 1996–January 1997)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on March 3, 2016. Retrieved August 12, 2015.
Jump up ^ Anne, S. (December 27, 2004). "Take it easy yaar!". The Hindu. Chennai, India. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Crook, John (May 2, 2004). "Going 'Friends'-less / Long-running show drops the curtain". Toledo Blade. Zap2It. pp. V3. Retrieved October 15, 2012.
^ Jump up to: a b Littlefield, Kinney (February 7, 1996). "'Murder, She Wrote' parodies 'Friends'". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Retrieved October 29, 2009.
Jump up ^ Kalsi, Jyoti (May 8, 2006). "Where Friends hang out". Gulf News. Archived from the original on July 8, 2008. Retrieved December 30, 2008.
Jump up ^ Ellen DeGeneres (host) (October 16, 2008). "The Ellen DeGeneres Show: Lisa Kudrow/Natasha Bedingfield/Jalen Testerman". The Ellen DeGeneres Show. Season 6. Episode 29. NBC.
Jump up ^ Thorley, Chantelle (September 15, 2009). "London to celebrate 15 years of Friends with Central Perk pop-up". Event. Haymarket Media. Archived from the original on April 10, 2010. Retrieved September 22, 2009.
Jump up ^ Hong, Haolan and Jo Ling Kent. "'Friends' in China: 'Central Perk' hits Beijing Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine.." CNN. July 2, 2010. Retrieved on July 4, 2010.
Jump up ^ Tiwari, Shwali (September 27, 2016). "India Now Has 5 F.R.I.E.N.D.S Themed Cafes, But There's A Catch". India Times. Archived from the original on February 11, 2017. Retrieved February 11, 2017.
Jump up ^ "A real-life version of Central Perk from F.R.I.E.N.D.S in Peshawar". The Good Times – Unique Pakistan. Archived from the original on December 12, 2015.
Jump up ^ Katzman, David M. (Summer 1998). "TV and American Culture". American Studies. 2. 39: 5–12.
Jump up ^ DellaContrada, John (April 16, 2004). ""Friends" Reflected Change in American Society, Among First TV Shows to Portray "Youth on Their Own," says UB Pop-Culture Expert". Buffalo News. Archived from the original on May 28, 2012.
Jump up ^ Pickard, Anna. "How I met Neil Patrick Harris". TV & Radio Blog. Archived from the original on February 14, 2012. Retrieved March 29, 2012.
Jump up ^ "Your Favorite TV Casts", TV Guide, January 3, 2011, page 11
Jump up ^ "Is ‘Seinfeld’ The Greatest Sitcom Ever?". Deadline.com. December 3, 2012. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved September 30, 2013.
Jump up ^ "As 100 Melhores Séries da História, segundo jornalistas brasileiros!" (in Portuguese). Ligado em Série. October 28, 2014. Archived from the original on October 31, 2014. Retrieved November 1, 2014.
Jump up ^ Welsh, James (January 15, 2004). "NBC elaborates on Friends finale plans". Digital Spy. Archived from the original on January 21, 2009. Retrieved December 31, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b Carter, Bill (December 21, 2002). "NBC Close to a Deal to Keep Friends for Another Season". New York Times. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved December 29, 2008.
Jump up ^ Dempsey, John (July 11, 2005). "Friends of Friends". Variety. Archived from the original on January 19, 2012. Retrieved September 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ Albiniak, Paige (March 5, 2012). "With Friends Like These, Who Needs Standard-Def?". Broadcasting & Cable. Archived from the original on February 26, 2013.
Jump up ^ "The One With the High Definition". ScreenScribe. January 17, 2011. Archived from the original on July 26, 2013. Retrieved July 10, 2013.
Jump up ^ Raftery, Liz (October 15, 2014). "Friends Is Coming to Netflix!". TV Guide. tvguide.com. CBS Interactive. Archived from the original on October 18, 2014. Retrieved October 15, 2014.
Jump up ^ "Ross and Phoebe "quitting Friends"". BBC News. December 23, 1999. Archived from the original on February 6, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Channel 4's £100m Friends deal". BBC News. December 16, 1999. Archived from the original on May 22, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Channel 4 to stop showing Friends after 15 years". The Daily Telegraph. London. February 10, 2010. Archived from the original on February 13, 2010. Retrieved May 3, 2010.
Jump up ^ "Friends finale draws record 8.6m". BBC News. May 29, 2004. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Same time, different channel.". Comedy Central. September 2, 2011. Archived from the original on September 25, 2011. Retrieved September 4, 2011.
Jump up ^ "European debut of Friends finale on RTÉ". Raidió Teilifís Éireann. May 11, 2004. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ "TV3 Friends". tv3.ie. Archived from the original on March 24, 2011. Retrieved March 25, 2011.
Jump up ^ "TV – Friends – entertainment.ie". entertainment.ie. Archived from the original on May 18, 2015.
Jump up ^ "Friends – CCUK".
Jump up ^ Warneke, Ross (November 18, 2004). "Rewind". The Age. Melbourne, Australia. Archived from the original on February 15, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Channel Ten seriously in trouble at 7 pm timeslot". news.com.au. The Daily Telegraph. November 7, 2008. Archived from the original on June 25, 2013. Retrieved April 6, 2012.
Jump up ^ "Friends". TV2. Archived from the original on February 4, 2009. Retrieved January 1, 2009.
Jump up ^ Global Television Network – Friends Bumper version 1. YouTube. November 29, 2009. Archived from the original on May 23, 2015. Retrieved April 12, 2015.
Jump up ^ "Friends". slice.ca. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved April 12, 2015.
Jump up ^ Dretzka, Gary (November 2, 1995). "Hit Show, Hit Soundtrack: It's No Longer An Accident". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on August 23, 2009. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ Burlingame, Jon (December 27, 1995). "Friends Theme Leads Pack of Hot-Selling TV Soundtracks". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved January 3, 2009. (Registration required (help)).
Jump up ^ "Friends Again: Various Artists". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends: The One With All the Trivia". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends: The One With All the Trivia". Amazon.com. Retrieved October 8, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends – Season 1–10 Complete Collection 15th Anniversary DVD: Amazon.co.uk: Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry, David Schwimmer, James Michael Tyler, Elliott Gould, Maggie Wheeler, Christina Pickles, Paul Rudd, Jane Sibbett, David Crane, Marta Kauffman: DVD". Amazon.co.uk. Retrieved July 26, 2010.
Jump up ^ TVShowsonDVD.com (June 19, 2012). "Friends – Warner Home Video Press Release Announces The Complete Series on Blu-ray Disc!". Archived from the original on June 22, 2012. Retrieved June 19, 2012.
Jump up ^ "Friends: The Complete First Season Review". DVDfile.com. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
^ Jump up to: a b c d e Fisher, Nick (May 27, 2000). "Videos to buy". The Sun. News Group Newspapers. p. 47.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 1) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Second Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 2) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Third Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 3) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Fourth Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 4) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Fifth Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 5) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Sixth Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ Fisher, Nick (July 15, 2000). "Video view". The Sun. News Group Newspapers. p. 40.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 6) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Seventh Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends: Complete Season 7 - New Edition [1995]". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 7) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Eighth Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends: Complete Season 8 - New Edition [1995]". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 8) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The Complete Ninth Season". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends: Complete Season 9 - New Edition [1995]". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 9) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends - The One with All Ten Seasons (Limited Edition)". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 3, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends: Complete Season 10 - New Edition [1995]". Amazon.com. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ "Friends (Season 10) (4 DVD Set)". JB Hi-Fi. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Endrst, James (September 5, 2004). "Matt LeBlanc's Joey goes West to seek fame & fortune". Daily News. Archived from the original on January 12, 2012. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Levin, Gary (July 24, 2003). "NBC has sitcom plans for Friends pal Joey". USA Today. Retrieved December 30, 2008.
Jump up ^ "Joey finds new friends on NBC". CNN. September 10, 2004. Archived from the original on January 22, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Weintraub, Joanne (July 11, 2004). "Joey co-star looking for sitcom laughs". Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Archived from the original on February 9, 2006. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Moraes, Lisa de (September 11, 2004). "Joey & The Apprentice: Downright Unfriendly". Washington Post. Retrieved December 30, 2008.
Jump up ^ "Weekly Program Rankings". ABC Medianet. March 21, 2006. Archived from the original on January 20, 2009. Retrieved December 30, 2008.
Jump up ^ Bauder, David (May 15, 2006). "NBC Betting on Aaron Sorkin's New Drama". Washington Post. Retrieved December 30, 2008.
^ Jump up to: a b c "Friends: The Movie on the cards?". Daily Telegraph. London. July 3, 2008. Archived from the original on September 21, 2010. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Fletcher, Alex (July 2, 2008). "Friends movie within next 18 months?". Digital Spy. Archived from the original on January 21, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Dahabiyeh, Nadia (July 4, 2008). "'No truth' in Friends film rumour". BBC News. Archived from the original on December 29, 2008. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Isola, Laurie (July 4, 2008). "Studio Exec Denies Friends Movie Rumors". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
Jump up ^ Moody, Mike (January 4, 2010). "Cox, Kudrow: 'No Friends movie plans'". Digital Spy. Archived from the original on January 16, 2010. Retrieved January 5, 2010.
Jump up ^ "No Friends reunion, says co-creator". 3 News NZ. April 18, 2013. Archived from the original on October 23, 2013.
Jump up ^ LeBlanc, Matt (January 13, 2015). "Matt LeBlanc Told Off Prince William & Prince Harry – CONAN on TBS". Conan (Interview). Interview with O'Brien, Conan. TBS. Archived from the original on January 14, 2015. Retrieved January 14, 2015.
Jump up ^ Duncan, Amy. "The One After The 10 Year Break: Friends fans get really, really angry as yet more false reunion rumours emerge". Metro. Archived from the original on January 18, 2014. Retrieved January 23, 2014.
Jump up ^ Duncan, Amy. "Were you left angry by the fake Friends reunion rumours? You might want to read this. It’s an apology. A big one...". Metro. Archived from the original on January 23, 2014. Retrieved January 23, 2014.
Jump up ^ Mulkerrins, Jane (February 22, 2016). "Friends reunited: Why Matthew Perry was absent from the reunion and six other things we learnt". The Telegraph. Retrieved June 4, 2017.
Jump up ^ Reporter, Michael O'Connell, The Hollywood. "'Friends' reunion (of sorts) to honor James Burrows". CNN. Retrieved 2017-05-19.
Jump up ^ EL TV (2016-02-22), 2016 FRIENDS REUNION – Tribute To Director James Burrows, retrieved 2017-05-20
Further reading
Articles concerning the cultural influence of the programme:

Allen, Samantha (2014). The Best Reason to Love 'Friends' Is the One We Never Realized at the Time. Mic. United States.
Ihnat, Gwen (2014). How Friends Changed The Sitcom Landscape. AV Club. United States.
Harrison, Andrew (2014). The Hunting Of The Snark. New Statesman. United Kingdom.
External links
	Friends portal
	Wikiquote has quotations related to: Friends (TV series)
	Wikimedia Commons has media related to Friends (TV series).
Official website[dead link]
Friends on IMDb
Friends at TV.com
Friends at Rotten Tomatoes
Friends at DMOZ
An oral history from Vanity Fair
http://friendsfest.co.uk/
Preceded by
Extreme
1995	Friends
Super Bowl lead-out program
1996	Succeeded by
The X-Files
1997
[show] v t e
Friends
[show] v t e
Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series
[show] v t e
Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series (1994–1999)
[show] v t e
Nielsen Media Research top-rated United States network television show
[show] v t e
GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Comedy Series
[show] v t e
Teen Choice Award for Choice Comedy Series
[show] v t e
People's Choice Awards for Favorite New TV Comedy
Lua error in mw.wikibase.entity.lua at line 34: The entity data must be a table obtained via mw.wikibase.getEntityObject.

Categories: Friends1994 American television series debuts2004 American television series endings1990s American comedy television series2000s American comedy television seriesAmerican television sitcomsTelevision series with multiple main charactersBAFTA winners (television series)English-language television programmingNBC network showsNielsen ratings winnersOutstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series Screen Actors Guild Award winnersTelevision series by Warner Bros. TelevisionTelevision shows set in New York CityPrimetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series winnersRomantic comedy television seriesTelevision shows filmed in Los AngelesTelevision series about friendship
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog inArticleTalkReadView sourceView historySearch

Search Wikipedia
Go
Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia
Wikipedia store
Interaction
Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact page
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Cite this page
Print/export
Create a book
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Wikiquote
Languages
አማርኛ
العربية
Asturianu
Avañe'ẽ
Azərbaycanca
বাংলা
Беларуская
Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
Български
Bosanski
Brezhoneg
Català
Čeština
Cymraeg
Dansk
Deutsch
Eesti
Ελληνικά
Español
Esperanto
Euskara
فارسی
Français
Gaeilge
Galego
한국어
Հայերեն
हिन्दी
Hrvatski
Bahasa Indonesia
Íslenska
Italiano
עברית
ಕನ್ನಡ
ქართული
Latina
Latviešu
Lëtzebuergesch
Lietuvių
Magyar
Македонски
മലയാളം
मराठी
مصرى
Nederlands
日本語
Norsk bokmål
ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
Polski
Português
Română
Русский
Саха тыла
Scots
Shqip
සිංහල
Simple English
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
کوردی
Српски / srpski
Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
Suomi
Svenska
தமிழ்
Татарча/tatarça
తెలుగు
ไทย
Türkçe
Українська
Tiếng Việt
ייִדיש
粵語
中文
Edit links
This page was last edited on 19 July 2017, at 13:45.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaDevelopersCookie statementMobile viewWikimedia Foundation Powered by MediaWiki