Facilities, Equipment, and Other Resources
WISE (4th floor Bessey Hall, Plant Pathology & Microbiology, Iowa State University): Overall project manager. Sets project priorities, coordinate project efforts with collaborators, supervise Bioinfomatics & Computational Biology PhD students working on CRE prediction and modeling of interacting proteins, Postdoc and Staff Scientist working on functional genomic analysis of protein-protein interactions. Also works with Dr. Boury and Project Lead the Way collaborators on iPath Barley outreach. 
Laboratories: The Wise laboratory contains ca. 1000 ft2 located in rooms 405 (Main lab) and 409 (Informatics lab) on 4th Bessey at ISU, a floor shared by sixteen highly interactive plant-molecular biology laboratories. The bulk of the laboratories on 4th Bessey comprise the ISU Plant Sciences Institutes’ Center for Plant Responses to Environmental Stresses (CPRES; http://www.plantstress.iastate.edu/).  A 36 ft2 Percival growth chamber in the basement of Bessey and a separate isolated 96 ft2 Conviron growth room in the basement of the Plant Pathology & Microbiology greenhouse are used for controlled inoculations. Wise maintains the necessary USDA-APHIS permits and federal registration required for research using Blumeria graminis (powdery mildew), Puccinia graminis (stem rust), Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV), Xanthomonas raphini, and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (for T3S delivery system). The ISU Biohazards Safety Committee has approved the laboratory to work with recombinant DNA at a BL2-P containment level (last recertification: 11/3/2016). A regulated growth room for tissue culture is available in the CPRES core facility. Sufficient cold storage facilities are available for long-term storage of seed stocks in the Seed Science Center across the street. In Spring 2018, the Wise group will move the current equipment and infrastructure into the new Biosciences Advanced Teaching and Research building, which will be the new home for the Department of Plant Pathology & Microbiology at ISU.
Plant Growth: The Wise lab has sole use of a 1000 ft2 glasshouse in the ISU-Plant Pathology greenhouse, a 96 ft2 controlled growth room (above) and a controlled dew chamber for pathogen inoculations that require moisture to germinate. Greenhouse and growth chambers are certified at a BL2-P level.
Major Equipment: All equipment required for recombinant DNA, plant molecular biology, yeast molecular genetics and protein biochemistry research is contained within the Wise laboratory. These items include balances, refrigerators, -20C and -80C freezers, refrigerated microcentrifuges, a Sorvall refrigerated high-speed centrifuge, incubators, incubator shakers; two hybridization ovens, autoradiography cassettes and intensifying screens; horizontal, vertical, and pulse-field gel DNA electrophoresis apparatus; protein electrophoresis apparatus, power supplies, water baths, pH meter, dissecting microscope, five 96-well programmable thermal cyclers, a cuvette and 96-well spectrophotometer, a BioRad CFX Real-Time PCR System with C1000 Touch Thermal Cycler, and a biological safety cabinet. In addition, the Wise lab has complete access to shared equipment in CPRES Core Facility also located on 4th floor Bessey Hall.
Biomek FXᴾ Robotic Workstation: Prior NSF-PGRP projects were leveraged by the Wise lab to acquire, through USDA-ARS-HPRL funds, a fully programmable Biomek FXᴾ Automated Lab Workstation for high-throughput yeast two-hybrid screening. It is equipped with dual pipetting heads combining multi-channel (96 well) and Span 8 pipetting ideal for high throughput workflows. This instrument increases experimental throughput of both 1st pass Y2H screens and confirmation tests.
Microscopy equipment for functional analyses: An x-y-z motorized Zeiss M1 Axioskop (2006) is equipped with a high-resolution color camera (HRC Axiocam), DIC optics at 5X, 10X, 20X and 40X and fluorescence capability.  The motorized eight-slide stage is joystick operated.  Via our suite of Axiovision software applications, the entire system (objective, stage, focus, reflector turret, light sources) is fully programmable in Visual Basic, but is also simple to operate in a point and click graphical user interface. A Dell Dimension desktop computer is used to process the images and to run the image recognition and analysis applications.
Mass spectrometry: The Wise group has access to mass spectrometry instrumentation in Dr. Justin Walley’s lab on 4th Bessey. It consists of a Thermo Scientific Q-Exactive high-resolution hybrid quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometer coupled with an Agilent 1260 quaternary HPLC and custom-fabricated nano-ESI source, a 16-core Dell PowerEdge R630 server running Agilent’s Spectrum Mill software for protein database searches (housed in the Durham Center for Computation and Communication), and a Next Advance pressure injection cell. The laboratory has a Sutter P2000 laser capillary puller that is shared with the ISU Protein Facility for production of nanospray tips. 
Computational Resources: The Wise lab contributes to the BioIogy Information Technology (Bio IT) group, a centralized resource for high-performance computing and application management at ISU. Bio IT maintains and optimizes server resources for a variety of computing tasks, allocating memory or processing capabilities accordingly (https://researchit.las.iastate.edu/hardware). All of the informatics pipelines in the Wise lab are maintained and accessed through Bio IT servers. Data is regularly backed up on an enterprise class network attached storage device that is accessible off campus. Every researcher in the lab is assigned an individual account with unlimited space on a university cloud storage system called CyBox.
For everyday word processing and associated tasks, an Internet-connected MacBook Pro dual 2.6Ghz Intel Core i7 / 1 Tb drive with two (daisy chained) 27-inch screens is contained within the Wise office.  
Four Mac computers equipped with UNIX-compatible OSX are used for word processing, sequence analysis and FPC workstations in the Wise Informatics lab (iMac with 2.66 Ghz Intel Core i5 / 1 Tb drive; iMac with 3.2 Ghz Intel Core i7 / 1 Tb drive; iMac with 3.4 Ghz Intel Core i7 / 1 Tb drive; MacMini with 2.66 Ghz Intel Core Duo / 320 Gb drive).  All hard drives are backed up daily in two locations, local external drives and an off-site server.  A Dell laptop and Dell Hybrid complement the suite of desktop Mac computers and are used for Windows based applications. 

………………………………………
LAWRENCE-DILL (1st floor Roy J. Carver Co-Laboratory, Genetics, Developmental & Cellular  Biology, Iowa State University): Guides PhD students in computational efforts centered on genome assembly, structural annotation, functional annotation, and network analyses.

Computational Laboratories: The Lawrence-Dill lab occupies office and conference space in the Roy J. Carver Co Laboratory at Iowa State University.  This includes a total of 650 ft2 office space for staff, graduate students, and postdoctoral researchers as well as a 250 ft2 conference room and common area designed to facilitate collaboration.  

Lawrence-Dill’s computational laboratory is a part of the Department of Genetics, Development and Cell Biology and participates in the graduate Interdepartmental Genetics and Genomics programs as well as the Interdepartmental Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Program.  The department has secretarial support such as accountant and personnel officers.  The interdepartmental programs each have program managers who guide and assist with graduate affairs.

Computer Resources: Appropriate desktop and laptop computing resources to support the efforts describe herein are available to Lawrence-Dill’s personnel. In addition, Iowa State University has various research clusters available for use by project personnel. Current members of the Lawrence-Dill lab use the ISU Condo cluster for their computing needs. Condo consists of: 176 SuperMicro servers (expandable to 324 servers) each with two 8-core Intel Haswell processors, 128 GB of memory and 2.5 TB of available local disk. Besides these compute nodes there are two large memory nodes. One large memory node has four 8-core Intel Ivy Bridge processors and 1 TB of main memory. Second large memory node has four 10-core Ivy Bridge processors and 2 TB of main memory. All nodes and storage are connected via Intel/Qlogic QDR InfiniBand (40 Mb/s) switch. Condo Cluster has a 256TB shared Lustre scratch diskspace named /lustre, and 756TB of RAID-6 long term NFS disk space under quota. To ensure data integrity of the large NFS space, nightly rsyncs (backups) are performed to a read-only space within Condo Cluster, so that data can be recovered from the day before in case of filesystem corruption. 

………………………………………
BOURY (2nd floor of Science I Hall, Plant Pathology & Microbiology, Iowa State University): Dr. Boury will oversee the development of the iPath game module and the assessment of iPath as a teaching tool to educate high school students about the relationships between genes, phenotypes and plant disease.

Office – Dual screen Dell Optiplex 9020 Computer, desk space for a graduate student with access to a computer lab consisting of nine desktop computers (Seven Dell Optiplex 9010s, and two iMac v11.2) for undergraduates to design iPath video segments and program the interactive aspects of the iPath module.  Office resources will also be used to store and analyze student learning data to determine the effectiveness of iPath once implemented. 

Assessment Resources – Dr. Boury’s group regularly uses Test of Scientific Literacy Skills (TOSLS) (Gormally et al. 2012), as well as Genetics Literacy Assessment Instrument (GLAI) (Bowling et al. 2008) as digital assessments for ongoing projects relating to the scholarship of teaching and learning (SoTL).  They have templates for data entry and analysis of student learning gains in both genetics and scientific literacy.
iPath Collaborator SCHROEDER (Biorenewables Complex, Iowa State University):  Camille Sloan Schroeder is the affiliate director of Iowa’s Project Lead the Way.  She is also the programs manager for Iowa State’s Engineering Community K-12 Outreach. This lab environment houses nine staff who perform administration and delivery of engineering outreach programs including FIRST(r) LEGO(r) League (FLL), FLL Junior, Project Lead The Way (PLTW), engineering kids camps and other related outreach to more than 40,000 youth annually. The program also works with thousands of volunteers across the state that are screened and trained in programming to create a broader dissemination of the outreach curriculum and programming. 

………………………………………
Local, shared resources ( 4th floor Bessey Hall, Iowa State University):
CPRES Core Facility: The fourth floor of Bessey Hall is home to the Core Facility of the Center for Plant Responses to Environmental Stress (CPRES), of which Wise and Walley are participating faculty members. A half-time manager oversees use and maintenance of the facility. This person also is responsible for upkeep of four cold rooms, a tissue culture room, and four growth chambers on the fourth floor of Bessey Hall, as well as twelve growth chambers located in the basement of Bessey Hall, which can be rented out as needed.
The facility houses the following major equipment for plant molecular biology research: low speed bench top refrigerated centrifuge, Dupont/ Bio-Rad PDS-1000 Biolistic Particle Delivery System (“gene gun”), sterile laminar flow hoods (4), BioRad electroporator and Micropulser, a Thermo SpeedVac, a Biorad gel documentation station, Molecular Dynamics Phosphorimager, UV transilluminator(s), liquid N2, 37°C floor model shaker, 30°C floor model shaker, ice machines (domestic and distilled H2O), Qsonica Q125 probe sonicator, SPEX 1600MiniG tissue homogenizer, two Thermo Nanodrop spectrophotomters, Cary UV/Vis spectrophotometer, 30°C and 37°C Precision Scientific incubators, scintillation counter, film developer, ultracentrifuge with rotors, autoclaves, 18 megohm water deionizer, "Light Cycler" quantitative PCR machine, Labconco lyophilizer, 250°C RNA drying oven, Hitachi spectrofluorimeter, Sorvall centrifuge and rotors, Stratalinker, and Kodak Image Station.


Other Iowa State University Resources: 
Iowa State University has several centers on campus capable of assisting in a variety of techniques as well as supplying a wide range of specialized equipment and expertise. 
BioIogy Information Technology (BIT): http://www.biology-it.iastate.edu / Biology IT is a collaborative effort of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences to work with faculty, staff and graduate students in the biological sciences to provide system support, backup, software licensing, research IT consulting and access to high-performance computers to run a number of custom NGS sequencing and proteomics software packages.
The Genome Informatics Facility http://www.biotech.iastate.edu/biotechnology-service-facilities/genome-informatics-facility/ serves as a centralized resource of expertise on the application of emerging sequencing technologies and open source software to biological systems.  Its mission is to integrate this knowledge into pipelines that are easy to understand and use by faculty, staff and students to enable the transformation of ‘big data’ into data that dramatically accelerates our understanding of biology and evolutionary processes. (http://gif.biotech.iastate.edu/joomla/)
Available Services:
o	Grant text and grant review 
♣	Experimental design and methods
♣	Data management plans
♣	Outreach
♣	Facilities and equipment
o	Genome assembly and annotation
o	Transcriptome assembly and annotation
o	SNP/InDel calling
o	RNA-seq analysis
o	ChIP-seq
o	Introgression mapping
o	Novel gene discovery
o	Personalized GBrowse for data visualization
o	Access to high performance computing
ISU DNA Facility (http://www.biotech.iastate.edu/service_facilities/dna.html) performs DNA synthesis, DNA sequencing, high-throughput DNA sequencing, plant genomic and plasmid DNA extraction, automated fluorescent genotyping, quantitative, real-time PCR and automated microarray slide hybridization.
DNA (Sanger) Sequencing: 
http://www.biotech.iastate.edu/biotechnology-service-facilities/dna-facility/ : Sequencing samples are run on the DNA Facility’s Applied Biosystems 3730xl DNA Analyzer. The AB 3730xl uses a four-color dye system and provides up to 900 bases of usable sequence data per reaction. DNA can be sequenced as plasmid, lambda, cosmid or BAC DNA, or as PCR products (direct sequencing). Custom primers can be used with all types of templates. For clients who have high-throughput sequencing projects, samples can be submitted in 96-well format.
Next-Generation Sequencing and nucleic acid profiling http://www.dna.iastate.edu/nextgensequencing.html : The DNA Facility houses an Illumina HiSeq 2500 & 3000, Illumina MiSeq, Fluidigm® BioMark™ HD, & PacBio RSII instrumentation and offers a number of whole genome sequencing and sample preparation options.
Microscopy and NanoImaging Facility (http://www.microscopy.biotech.iastate.edu/) provides a variety of instrumentation, technical assistance, consultation and training to individuals needing digital macrography, light and fluorescence microscopy, scanning and transmission electron microscopy, cryomicrotomy, cryopreservation, cytochemistry, in situ hybridization, autoradiography, X-ray microanalysis and image analysis. 
Confocal and Multiphoton Facility (http://www.biotech.iastate.edu/biotechnology-service-facilities/confocal-and-multiphoton-facility/) allows for real-time optical sectioning of fixed and living specimens, providing significant improvements in optical contrast and resolution over traditional light and fluorescence microscopy. The facility is equipped with a Leica SP5 X MP confocal/multiphoton microscope system with an inverted microscope front end. New technology available on this system includes a white light laser, IR laser and optical parametric oscillator (OPO). Researchers can tune the white light laser to any wavelength between 470 and 670 nm, which has a similar effect to having 200 lasers and 200 wavelengths. This allows researchers to select the excitation wavelength that is best suited to their samples and will result in maximum fluorescence emission. On the emission side, the system has an Acousto-Optical Beam Splitter (AOBS) which allows researchers to precisely set the emission wavelengths they would like to capture rather than be limited to preset emission ranges determined by fixed filter sets. Both of these technologies help to separate fluorescence signals with close excitation and/or emission spectra.

For capturing images of fast moving samples or events that occur in a fraction of a second, the resonant scanner enables video rate scanning with speeds up to 16,000 lines per second. In addition, the system has FRET, FRAP, timelapse, hyperspectral signal separation software, 3D imaging, colocalization, deconvolution, region of interest (ROI) scanning, brightfield and DIC capabilities. A 405 laser provides UV excitation, and an Argon laser provides CFP excitation and extra power for bleaching. The system also has an X-Y scanning stage and automatic composition software to capture high-resolution images of samples that are too large to fit within one field of view and a color digital camera.

Laurence H. Baker Center for Bioinformatics and Biological Statistics in the Iowa State University Plant Sciences Institute (http://www.bioinformatics.iastate.edu/) is focused on developing computational, graphical, or algorithmic methods to interpret and glean information from large biological data sets.

………………………………………
SCHWEIZER (Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK) in Gatersleben, Germany): 
Laboratories: All laboratories for plant transformation, transient-induced gene silencing (TIGS) in barley as well as host-induced gene silencing (HIGS) in powdery mildew and Fusarium head blight fungi are located on the IPK research campus in Gatersleben. They are in modern research buildings either newly built or completely renovated.
Greenhouses: Transformed plants are grown for seed production or molecular/physiological characterization in greenhouses located at the Gatersleben campus with automated shading and aeration, supplemental light, temperature control by heating (part of them air-conditioned). The Schweizer lab shares these greenhouses with other users.
Major equipment: The Schweizer lab is equipped with 3 fully motorized microscopes (2 ZEISS Axio-imager and 1 ZEISS Axio-SCAN). The Axio-imager(s) have been upgraded to fully automated robotized systems by in-house developed control software. The Axio-SCAN system is a fully automated system that massively increases throughput of the TIGS and HIGS screenings. The three systems produce images of barley or wheat/powdery mildew interactions for automated recognition and quantification of fungal structures by software that was developed in-house, by a subcontractor as well as by a current cooperation partner (Fraunhofer Institute for Factory Operation and Automation). Other major equipment such as two Bio-Rad PDS-1000 plant transformation systems, sterile benches, plant growth cabinets for growing donor plans, experimental plant seedlings or for incubating detached leaves after bombardment, approximately 10 large -80°C freezers, and an ABI 7900 HT real-time PCR machine are available to both labs.
IT and Bioinformatics Resources: The images that are produced in hundreds or thousands per run, depending on the microscope, have a size of up to 40 Gigabytes/image. For transport and handling of these data high-speed light cables inside IPK and high-end computer hardware have been established. Moreover, all segmented images containing regions of interest are automatically long-term stored by the in-house LIMS system.


